Mistress:
Previously on "The Outpost"...
There's a black kinj.
Maybe the only weapon
that'll kill Yavalla.
- And where is it?
- There's someone in
the Plane of Ashes
- who might know where it is.
- Who?
- My father.
- We need your help. Now.
Bring the Outpost
into my fold.
- They're all infected!
- Get that barricade up!
- Has anyone seen Falista?
- Hello there.
- You came for me.
- Stay close to the wall.
I'll come right
behind you, okay? Go.
Use your power
to protect the Queen.
- This is the place.
- Talon, I think
that's your father.
- That's him.
- Don't touch me!
This has gone on long enough.
You live like an animal,
hiding in the darkness
eating the gods know what.
I have done everything I can
to reason with you.
Saivek:
There's nothing but death
for you down here, Yavalla.
You shouldn't have come.
I have waited an eternity
for you to come around.
I shall wait no more.
It is time
to unlock the power
you have kept from me
all these years.
Saivek:
You can either leave right now
or I'll add your bones
to the pile.
but I'm not giving you
the box.
Give me more light.
Fools, don't let him touch you!
Move.
( groans )
- The box.
- Never.
Saivek, the box.
Priestess?
- Open it.
- Don't!
Oh.
- Oh. Well done, Corven.
- Yes, Priestess.
It's a curse, Yavalla.
It will end with death
for everything.
- Even you.
- When the portal reopens,
we will take back
what we lost.
Time to go.
Don't leave me, Priestess!
You won't survive.
But I served you faithfully.
Yes, you did,
and I thank you.
I hope you don't suffer
too much.
Come.
Hey. Set me free.
Set me free!
I have to stop her!
No!
No.
( theme music playing )
I told you! It's death.
He's right. I am death.
How are you still alive?
No one could survive that.
Because I'm cursed,
that's how.
You have the black kinj.
How do you know about that?
Who are you people?
Did Yavalla send you?
Don't touch me!
I don't need to touch you,
but I'm not leaving you
like this.
Look at how many he's killed.
They were my friends.
- He'll kill you next.
- If he wanted to kill me,
he wouldn't have stopped me
from touching him.
He'll kill me!
Don't do it.
You're the one
that did this to me.
We're not with Yavalla.
We're from the green world.
Yavalla has already conquered
most of the other world.
We need the black kinj
to stop her.
Well, how did she get there?
How did you come here?
My wife would never
have opened the portal.
Your wife died a few years
after you abandoned her.
How do you know about that?
She passed the Asterkinj
to her daughter.
My daughter? Talon.
Is she still alive?
Oh, thank the gods.
How-- how do you know
all this?
Do you know her? Do you--
Do you know Talon?
I am Talon.
( sputters )
He should never have
come after me.
He had to.
He loves you.
He loved you.
Even with his dying breath,
he was thinking of you.
- What do you mean?
- His last words were,
"Use your power
to protect the Queen."
Falista, he died
saving your life.
I believe when he said
"protect the Queen,"
he meant protect
what I represent,
protect the Realm.
Listen to me, he loved you.
It was the last thing
he said to me
before he went to save you.
I'm so sorry.
I'm being so selfish.
You lost someone
you loved as well.
That thing in my head
managed to kill the person
that attacked Tobin,
but it nearly
killed him as well.
I can't control it.
I'm afraid
I'll be no help to you.
This violence is futile!
Enough suffering
has been caused.
Enough lives have been lost.
You have been told
that we are possessed
and we can't think
for ourselves.
These are all lies.
The Queen lies to you
so she can rule over you.
She would rather see you dead
than make peace with Yavalla.
I know there are some of you
who are ready to join us.
- Don't be afraid.
- Not Munt.
How could you even
consider that?
Join us and live.
You don't have to die today.
No, don't listen to him.
Don't listen to him!
You all know Munt,
and that is not him.
It's Yavalla trying
to trick us.
Janzo. My brother.
Tear down this barricade
and join me
in the warm embrace
of Yavalla's mercy
or you will die cold and alone.
( music playing )
There's so many of them.
60,000 give or take.
I've seen enough.
Is this all that remains
of the little world
I've conquered?
Almost a disappointment.
Look at all this death.
Unlike your Queen,
I did not wish to hurt anyone.
And to Queen Rosmund,
I say only this,
how many more lives
will you sacrifice?
Do you really care
so little for your subjects?
And your friends,
will you sentence them to death
or will you give them
the freedom to choose
for themselves?
You dare speak to me
of freedom?
You who enslaves
the minds of your people?
Has one of your followers
chosen to join you,
or have you forced each
and every one of them?
My people are happy.
Much happier than yours,
I assure you.
And do they know how short
their lives will be?
Dying in weeks
because of your disease?
Not dying.
Becoming part of me.
We're spent enough time talking.
Go ahead and attack.
We'll see how many of your
followers are dead
by the time the sun goes down.
I know how much you love
to lose your followers
before their time,
brief though it may be.
- What are you doing?
- I've been one of them.
The more she has,
the stronger she feels.
She won't want to lose so many.
For the sake
of preserving lives,
I will grant you one hour
to peacefully surrender.
Let your army think carefully
before following you
to their graves.
So it kills
anything you touch?
Yes.
But my kinj makes me immune
to the effects of other kinjes.
No, not the black one.
The Terakinj.
If I touch you,
it will destroy you
and anything inside you,
including your kinj.
So it'll kill Yavalla
and her white kinj?
If I can get close enough
to her, yes.
Then there's no time to waste.
We have to bring you back
with us right now.
And what are you gonna do, huh?
Pick me up
and throw me at Yavalla?
I can barely move.
I had those spears stuck in me
for gods know how long.
Look at me.
And if any of you
tries to help--
Yes. Dead, we know.
Can the Terakinj
be passed to someone else?
Yes, but not to one
who already has a kinj in them.
Wren.
You can pass it to Wren,
and she can get close
to Yavalla.
How would you get close
to Yavalla?
Yavalla's my mother.
Zed, I don't know if I could.
What if I can't
bring myself to do it?
No! I'm not passing it
to anyone.
I've taken enough lives.
I won't have a young,
innocent death
on my hands as well.
Death?
Why? Would Wren die?
The black and white kinjes
will destroy each other,
along with their host bodies.
So if you touch Yavalla,
you'll both die?
Yes.
Is there no other way
to save my mother?
She would have to give up
her kinj willingly,
and the white kinj
has a steel grip on
the mind that carries it.
- I'm sorry.
- If there's no other way
to save her, then I can do it.
- I think. I think
I can be the one--
- No!
I refuse to send a woman off
to kill her own mother.
- Someone has to do it.
- The kinj will heal my insides.
It could take days.
You're in bad shape.
We don't have time for that.
I'll do it.
I can pass my kinj to Wren,
- and you can pass your--
- No! This is my burden,
no one else's.
We may already be too late.
I'll heal.
I just need some water.
I'm thirsty as hell.
It's all we had left.
Go. Take the second left tunnel.
There's a spring down that way.
The water will help me
heal faster.
( scoffs )
Go. I'll stay with him.
Unbelievable.
Yavalla has offered us
our lives if we surrender,
but they will be
very short lives.
Is that what you want?
Look, I am the only one
who has experienced
what it's like to be part
of the United.
It's like your mind
is swallowed up.
Your body withers away
with every passing
of the infection.
It is a slow
and awful death.
And I can assure you
that it is better to die today
than to have your life
sucked out of you by
that demented witch.
I swear to each
and every one of you,
surrender is not an option.
Now, we have won
hard battles before,
and we will be victorious
again today, my friends.
Hail, Queen Rosmund!
All: Hail, Queen Rosmund!
( cheering )
Well done, Your Majesty.
That speech is just
what they needed to hear.
Commander Spears,
listen to me.
Garret:
Now we just need
to think of a way--
Garret, listen to me.
We can't win this fight.
What? We have a chance.
No. You know as well as I do
we don't have a chance.
I just-- I wanted to say
that at the end of it all,
I'm glad you're here with me.
You said to them
that we would win this battle.
Yeah, I lied, Garret,
for their own sake.
I would rather my men die
fighting today
than succumb to
Yavalla's control.
I have experienced
what it's like.
Death is preferable.
No, there is always a way.
What about Talon?
Don't give up on her yet.
She's already
been gone too long.
She's probably already dead.
You don't know that!
If she finds the black kinj--
Yes, if, if, if!
If she finds it.
If it even exists.
If she doesn't get killed
by a Blackfist or a Lu-Qiri
or just the bloody environment
of that place.
All right, then
we should make our escape
and live another day
to figure something out.
Garret, I'm not running away.
There's nowhere to run.
We will find a way.
All right? This is--
this isn't the end.
So, kill Yavalla
in a suicide attack?
- That's your plan?
- Something like that.
So you're just giving up
on living then?
I gave up on living
the day I got this curse
handed to me.
Look at you, Talon.
So strong.
I'm so glad I got
to see you again--
Before you leave me again?
( chuckling )
Your ears.
Cut the points off
to blend in with humans.
- It's clever.
- I didn't do it to be clever.
I was scared for my life.
I watched humans murder
Mother and Eremus
just 'cause they had
pointy ears and black blood.
They slaughtered
our entire village.
I'm sorry, Talon.
I only ever wanted
what was best for all of you.
You were just a little girl.
Eremus had only just been born.
So why'd you leave us then?
The Prime Order
were gathering kinjes.
I was tasked with saving
a captured Dragman.
When I found her,
she reached out her hand.
And like a fool, I took it.
I swear to you, Talon,
I had no idea what
I was doing.
When I found out what kinj
she had passed to me, I--
I couldn't go near any of you.
It was too dangerous.
You could have at least
stayed in the Realm.
Look at me.
Look at my existence.
Any living creature
I touch dies.
I couldn't be anywhere
near others.
Especially not my own children.
Yavalla:
Rosmund, what is your answer?
Will you show mercy
to your subjects?
Or will your throw away
their lives
in a feeble attempt
to save your own?
It is to you
that I offer mercy, Yavalla.
- ( scoffs )
- You stand to lose a hundred
for everyone one of us
you gain.
I have been United,
and I will do anything
to protect my people from you
and your control.
You have made
your last mistake.
Tear down the barricade
and bring me her head.
- Man: Attack!
- ( shouting )
Spend your arrows well!
This is only the first wave.
( shouting )
Spears in the front!
Two rows staggered!
Crossbows in the back!
( shouting )
Garret: Stay strong!
Stay strong!
Stay ready! Ready!
( gasping )
Leave it, Gwynn! Leave it!
Fall back!
Come on.
( ghostly whispering )
( screaming )
She can control it.
Falista.
( panting )
( groaning )
- Shh.
- ( gasping )
I see you learned
to control that horrible
thing inside your head.
- Well done.
- I'm sorry. I tried.
There was so many of them.
- Shh. Don't talk, okay?
Just breathe. Breathe.
- ( gasping )
- This doesn't look good.
- We have to help her, Janzo.
You must have something
that could extend her time
till the kinj can cure her.
I do, in my lab.
I need my-- my hapsweed.
Put this on here, please.
I need my hapsweed
and my suture kit.
Without that,
there's very little I can do.
And without her,
we won't survive a second wave.
- All right. Then I'll go.
- Impossible.
You'll never make it--
Through the same holes
in the barracks walls.
If Tobin can get to Falista,
then maybe I can get
to my lab and back.
- I'll come with you.
- You stay here.
I'll be more stealthy
by myself.
- ( groans )
- Shh, shh.
It's okay, it's okay.
Oh.
It hurts, Mum.
It hurts so much.
( door closes )
Tell me about yourself.
I don't know anything about you.
All right, I'll go first.
Since last we spoke,
I've been living here
in this dank cave
wondering if my daughter
was alive, if--
if she was happy,
what was she doing?
Does she look like
her beautiful mother?
That's everything about
my life all these years.
Now your turn.
Well, for a long time I just
wandered from town to town.
Finding food where I could,
learning to fight from
whomever would teach me.
I was the only
Blackblood left.
Couldn't trust anyone.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry you had such
a hard life.
Hardly compares
to how hard yours has been.
You have your mother's
fighting spirit in you.
That's how you made it
this far.
( footsteps approaching )
- Ready to go yet, old man?
- Almost.
Okay, Janzo's gonna help you.
There's Janzo.
Oh, thank you, gods.
Janzo, you're just in time.
She's not doing good.
They're staying
just outside her range.
It's like they're waiting
for something.
( gasps )
- Janzo, no!
- No!
( laughs )
The red power is gone.
( shouting )
Hold the line!
- Give me your sword.
- Hold! Hold strong!
Come with us, Cor.
It's beautiful in their world.
There's trees
as green as emeralds,
water everywhere you look.
No. Yavalla is there,
and now death is going there.
If we fix things there,
I'm coming back for you
this time, Corven.
I promise.
Ready?
- Do we have a plan?
- We find Yavalla
and you touch her.
I like this guy.
You going to be all right?
I'll miss you, dear Wren.
( grunting, shouting )
- Where's Yavalla?
- I don't know.
- Janzo!
- Gwynn.
Janzo? Janzo?
Talon.
Garret, no.
Saivek.
( shouting )
( whistles )
( snarling )
Garret? Garret?
Garret, easy.
Garret,
I don't want to hurt you.
Gwynn, where's Yavalla?
We need to get him
close enough to touch her.
I don't know.
She could be anywhere. Why?
If he touches her,
both them and their kinjes
will die.
If you don't know where she is,
who would know?
Everyone I know of
is under Yavalla's control
except for the people
in this room.
- ( thudding )
- ( screeching )
( groaning )
Saivek, here we are again.
Something familiar
about this situation,
don't you think?
Janzo, wake up. Janzo!
( grunts )
You should have left him
in the Plane of Ashes, Talon.
Daddy can't--
Mother, I won't join you.
- ( gasps )
- I'd rather die.
Wren.
- Ketma...
- ( snarls )
I'll hold her back.
Try and pry him free.
But whatever you do,
don't touch him.
( music playing )
Xaba.
Wren? Wren? Wren.
Don't do this.
My darling child, I--
I will not let them infect you.
- You're lying. You're lying.
- No.
Just like you lied to me
all along.
I swear it. I swear.
I will let you walk away free.
I ju-- I just can't lose you.
Wren, listen to me,
I am your mother.
No, you're not.
I don't have a mother.
Not anymore.
Sorry, Mother.
Of course I didn't mean that.
I know, my love.
Go ahead. Do it.
I will when Yavalla
commands me to.
I can't do it, Talon.
Together.
( grunting )
I'm sorry, Talon.
I failed you.
Pass it to me.
I can do it.
I-- I can't. You have a kinj.
Go. Go, Talon!
Make your escape!
Wait. You can pass
your kinj to somebody else?
As long as I make contact
long enough for it to pass
instead of kill the person.
But it will kill him.
All these years I've felt
like I wanted you dead.
And now I just want
more time.
I know.
Me, too.
Gwynn, you'll die!
Sorry, Talon.
( gasps )
Good-bye, Talon.
- Why would you do that?
- I didn't have a choice.
It's for the good of the Realm.
But if we lose you,
who's going to rule the Realm?
You'll figure it out.
I don't want to lose you, Gwynn.
It's just me and you
against the world.
- It's always been that way.
- It's always been that way
since the day
you walked in the door.
You stood by me in every
bad decision I've ever made
and you're my best friend.
- Are you ready?
- No.
Are you?
Not in the least.
Victory is mine.
Zed?
Now do you see?
Admit it, it was
a mistake to betray me.
- You--
- ( door opens )
You're alive?
- Where is Ketma?
- ( whistling )
What about Saivek?
- He's dead.
- He cannot die. He's--
Stop them.
Stop them!
- You lose, Yavalla.
- No.
Die, you witch!
( both screaming )
( murmuring )
( cheering )
- Falista. Falista!
- I'm all right.
She's alive.
Her kinj must have kept
her alive.
Why are they kneeling?
They're bending the knee
to you, Talon.
They see you
as their new leader.
Their leader is dead.
Long live their new leader.
( music playing )
What have they done?
They released the gods.
( music playing )